So we've learned a lot about the VPC
so let's just try to remember all of it.
So VPC stands for virtual private cloud,
and within a VPC you have subnets.
A subnet is tied to a specific availability zone
and it represents a network partition from within your VPC.
If you wanted to have internet access at the VPC level,
you will need to create an Internet Gateway.
But if your instances are private instances
and private subnets, then instead, you will need
to use a NAT gateway, which is managed
or NAT instances that you manage to give internet access
to your private subnets.
To have a firewall that's going to be stateless,
you need to have a NACL or network ACL,
which is going to represent subnet rules
for inbound and outbound traffic.
If you wanted to have stateful rules,
you can use security groups and they operate
at the EC2 instance level or the ENI level.
If you wanted to connect two VPC together
and they have non-overlapping IP ranges,
you can use VPC peering and it's a non-transitive thing.
So if VPC A is connected to B and then B to C,
it's not necessary and it won't happen.
A cannot communicate with C.
We have also learned about elastic IPs,
which are fixed public IPv4
that will have an ongoing cost if you're not using them.
Okay, next with VPC endpoints.
And that's to provide private access to any AWS service
within your VPC.
And if you wanted to establish a connection,
a private connection to a third-party service
in a third-party VPC, you could use PrivateLink.
If you wanted to have access to your network traffic logs,
you could use the VPC Flow Logs.
Now, in terms of private connectivity,
if you wanted to connect your on-premises data center
to AWS, you would have to set up a site-to-site VPN
over the public internet.
And then if you wanted to connect
your own personal computer directly
into your VPC, you could use client VPN
to establish an OpenVPN connection directly into your VPC.
Now, if you wanted to establish a very private connection
and direct within AWS and your data center,
you would use Direct Connect.
And if you want to connect everything together,
including thousands of VPC on-premises network,
site-to-site VPN, Direct Connect, and so on,
then you would use a Transit Gateway.
So hopefully all of this makes sense.
I know VPC has a lot of information
but the exam will ask you to choose the correct sub-service
within your VPC.
So I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.